+++
title = "GenomicTuples and DNA methylation patterns"
date = 2018-02-09T11:29:29-05:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2015-01-12T14:00:00+02:00
time_end = 2015-01-12T14:15:00+02:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "European Bioconductor Developers' Meeting"
event_url = "https://www-huber.embl.de/BiocEurope/"

# Location of event.
location = "European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["R_packages"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["GenomicTuples", "DNA methylation", "R", "Bioconductor", "PhD"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "slides/2015/GenomicTuples_BioC_2015.pdf"
# TODO: Figure out how to host HTML slides
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = "https://www.github.com/PeteHaitch/BiocEurope_2015_presentation"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
