+++
title = "Scaling R and Bioconductor to support methods for single-cell genomic analysis"
date = 2018-02-09T11:39:39-05:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2017-08-01T15:20:00-05:00
time_end = 2017-08-01T15:35:00-05:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "I made a last-minute change of topic from single-cell ATAC-seq to instead talk about **DelayedMatrixStats** and other infrastructure in Bioconductor analysing large single-cell genomics data"
abstract_short = "I had a last-minute change of topic from single-cell ATAC-seq"

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Joint Statistical Meetings 2017"
event_url = "https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2017/index.cfm"

# Location of event.
location = "Baltimore Convention Centre, Baltimore, USA"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["R_packages"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["R", "Bioconductor", "bsseq", "single-cell RNA-seq", "scRNA-seq", "DelayedMatrixStats", "matrixStats", "postdoc"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "slides/2017/2017-08-01_Peter_Hickey_JSM.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
