+++
title = "DelayedArray: A tibble for arrays"
date = 2018-06-11  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2018-07-13T10:30:00+10:00
time_end = 2018-07-13T10:50:00+10:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "High-throughput genomics data are commonly summarised in a feature-by-sample matrix or higher-dimensional array. In R, these have traditionally been stored in-memory, but this is becoming prohibitive for large, contemporary datasets, such as those generated using new genomics technologies like single-cell RNA-seq. Instead, these arrays may be stored on-disk, using the Hierarchical Data Format 5 (HDF5), for example.\n\nThe Bioconductor project has developed the _DelayedArray_, which supports different 'backends' to wrap around an in-memory, on-disk, or remotely served representation of an array, providing a unified interface to the data that is familiar to users of ordinary R arrays. In this sense, a _DelayedArray_ is to an array as a _tibble_ is to a data frame.\n\nI will provide an overview of the _DelayedArray_ framework, explain the requirements for developing a new backend for a _DelayedArray_, and highlight example backends for on-disk and remotely served data. I will also demonstrate how user-created packages can extend the capabilities of the _DelayedArray_ and how this has enabled us to analyse large genomics datasets in R that were previously infeasible."
abstract_short = "An overview of the DelayedArray framework for userRs!"

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "useR! 2018"
event_url = "https://user2018.r-project.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre, Brisbane, Australia"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["R"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["R", "Bioconductor", "bsseq", "single-cell RNA-seq", "scRNA-seq", "DelayedMatrixStats", "matrixStats", "postdoc"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
