+++
title = "Lessons from switching to on-disk storage using DelayedArray containers"
date = 2018-07-23  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2018-07-25T09:40:00-04:00
time_end = 2018-07-25T10:00:00-04:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The *DelayedArray* container can store array-like data using different 'backends', including on-disk storage of data [1]. It provides a unified array-like interface to the data and can be used as an assay in a *SummarizedExperiment*. We have been amongst the first to adopt the DelayedArray framework, adding support to the **bsseq** and **minfi** packages used for analysing whole-genome DNA methylation data. This enabled the analysis of datasets that would otherwise have been prohibitively large (hundreds of GBs to TBs of data). We anticipate that the DelayedArray framework will be valuable in the analysis of ever-larger omics datasets, such as those generated from single cell technologies. It can also enable working with larger data on a laptop, especially one with a fast solid state drive.\n\nThis talk will highlight important lessons learnt during the process of re-factoring **bsseq** and **minfi** to take full advantage of the DelayedArray framework. We will give an overview of key concepts, highlight design patterns useful for writing performant code, and offer suggested workflows for common use cases.\n\n[1]: DelayedArray Bioconductor package by Hervé Pagès (2018)."
abstract_short = "An overview of the DelayedArray framework for Bioconductor developers"

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "BioC 2018"
event_url = "http://bioc2018.bioconductor.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Victoria University, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["R"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["R", "Bioconductor", "bsseq", "single-cell RNA-seq", "scRNA-seq", "DelayedMatrixStats", "matrixStats", "postdoc", "minfi"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
