+++
title = "Setdb1-Mediated H3K9 Methylation is Enriched on the Inactive X and Plays a Role in its Epigenetic Silencing"
date = 2016-05-18

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Andrew Keniry", "Linden J Gearing", "Natasha Jansz", "Joy Liu", "Aliaksei Z Holik", "**Peter F Hickey**", " Sarah A Kinkel", "Darcy L Moore", "Kelsey Breslin",  "Kelan Chen", "Ruijie Liu", "Catherine Phillips", "Miha Pakusch", "Christine Biben", "Julie M Sheridan", "Benjamin T Kile", "Catherine Carmichael", "Matthew E Ritchie",  "Douglas J Hilton", "Marnie E Blewitt"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
# 7 = Thesis
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Epigenetics & Chromatin"
publication_short = "Epigenetics Chromatin"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "**BACKGROUND**: The presence of histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methylation on the mouse inactive X chromosome has been controversial over the last 15 years, and the functional role of H3K9 methylation in X chromosome inactivation in any species has remained largely unexplored.\n\n**RESULTS**: Here we report the first genomic analysis of H3K9 di- and tri-methylation on the inactive X: we find they are enriched at the intergenic, gene poor regions of the inactive X, interspersed between H3K27 tri-methylation domains found in the gene dense regions. Although H3K9 methylation is predominantly non-genic, we find that depletion of H3K9 methylation via depletion of H3K9 methyltransferase Set domain bifurcated 1 (Setdb1) during the establishment of X inactivation, results in failure of silencing for around 150 genes on the inactive X. By contrast, we find a very minor role for Setdb1-mediated H3K9 methylation once X inactivation is fully established. In addition to failed gene silencing, we observed a specific failure to silence X-linked long-terminal repeat class repetitive elements.\n\n**CONCLUSIONS**: Here we have shown that H3K9 methylation clearly marks the murine inactive X chromosome. The role of this mark is most apparent during the establishment phase of gene silencing, with a more muted effect on maintenance of the silent state. Based on our data, we hypothesise that Setdb1-mediated H3K9 methylation plays a role in epigenetic silencing of the inactive X via silencing of the repeats, which itself facilitates gene silencing through alterations to the conformation of the whole inactive X chromosome."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "PubMed", url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27195021"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
